---
layout: page
title: Information and Guides to How Things Work!
permalink: /howto/
---


## Carburetors (Carbs)
I wanted to make this page dedicated to telling others what I wish someone had told me. I also dislike watching videos on things because they are usually way to drawn out and include useless infromation. Anyhow this section is dedicated to teaching everyone about Carbs. The importance behind this is Carbs account for most issues you will have on your small engines, anything from black smoke to popping in your exhaust system. A classic carbuerator sympton is when the engine may idle propley, or run correctly in some rpm range, but when taken out of that rpm range it begins to stumble or die. **NOTE THAT THE EASIEST WAY TO PREVENT CARB ISSUES IS BY CHANGING THE AIR FILTER, FUEL FILTER, AND RUNNING NON-EHTANOL!!!!**. Any how let me give you some context on how Carbuerators actually work. Carbuerators rely on a principle known as the Venturi Effect, which is basically a fancy way of saying that when we can restrict the flow of air or any fluid, it will do two important things. First the velocity (speed) of the fluid or air (in our case I will be refering to air as thats what carbs deal with) increases, and where the constraint is a low preassure zone is also created. Now its imporatnt to note that this is a low preassure zone compared to atmospheric pressaure. We will skip over the speed effect for right now as that less important but refer back to this low preasure zone. The carbuerator is comprised of 2 main sections, the body and the bowl. The Body (shown below). Is futhuered comprised of many passages withing the alumium these passages serve as tubes provinding direct path from the fuel (thats kept in the bowl) to these low preassure zones created in 2 main areas. This is a very important concept to understand, as this is the principle in which carbs can function. Air is restricted in two main areas, first is the constriction in the casting of the carb body, you can see this in the photo below as one end is very wide, the other end is wide but the middle is much smaller. This provides a constriction of air, that creates an area of low preassure. The second constriction is actually the throttle plate. Depending on how "open" the throttle there is a low preassure zone. For example at idle when you have a fully close throttle the air is severly restricted causing a very strong "vaccum" (fancy way of saying area of low pressure). There are conviently small holes connected to the passages right near the throttle plate that utilize this low preassure to draw fuel from the bowl that is then delivered to the engine. Consider as you gradually open the throttle though, and this plate continually restricts the air less and less. While this is happening that low preassure area becomes less appeant, but the natrual constriction in the carb body becomes more prounced leading to the low pressure zone being in the middle of the carb body instead of near the throttle plate. Conviently there are holes there as well that allows fuel to travel. NOW it is important to note that fuel is still being drawn by the small holes near the throttle plate, but not enough to consider. So this brings the concept of circuits into the picture. When ever anyone talks about a carbuerator fuel circuit they are referring to where this area of low preassure is more pronounced. Where it gets complicated is that these circuits also heavily over lap, but there are 2 circuits in which the effects of the other circuits arent apprent. The first being your idle circuit. The throttle plate is completly closed and almost all your fuel is moving through the small holes near the throttle plate. The next is your wide open throttle circuit. At this time the throttle is complety opened causing the majority of your fuel coming from the holes near the middle of the carb body. Now is a good time to move onto how the fuel is actually metered, and its done using these small straw like things called "Jets". The Jets are based in certain sizes that effectivly limit the amount of fuel that can be sucked. There are two main jets, the pilot, which controls your low speed circuits, and the main jet which controls your high speed circuits. Its worth metioning that another important element for fuel metering for your mid range speeds. When ever you arent going full speed or idling your pilot jet is working with something known as your velocity needle. This needle sits in the passage leading to your main jet (also called the emulsion tube, picture of that later, just know its a fancy version of these passages). As you gradully open the throttle this needle slides up allowing more and more fuel to be deliverd from the main jet as the low pressure zone in the middle of the carb body (this natrual constraint we discused above) increases. So know he have discussed the three main circuits, idle, midrange, and wide open. Its important to note that the mid range circuit is heavily influenced by the pilot jet. Most of the time in normal driving scenrioas you will most always be pulling heavily from the idle ciruit and midrange circuit. Another thing I must metion is the effect of the idle fuel screw. This small screw actually controls how much fuel you are getting when strictly idling. Its USUALLY placed underneath the carb body on the engine side of the throttle plate. Screwing this screw in effectivly cuts off fuel, and screwing out effectively allows more fuel in. As soon as you open the throttle pased 1/4 the setting on the screw does not effect how the engine runs, so its basically only used to set the fuel air ratio of your idle. For example on Harley Davidsons I like running my idles a bit rich because they are air cooled, I do this to prevent over heating! So now hopefully you understand the differnt circuits of the Carb, idle,low speed, midrange, and wide open. Below you will find a graph attached showing you which jets (or screws) are feeding what circuits most heavily. Now is a fanstastic time to also bring up the main types of carbuerators. The main two being variable venturi (Constant Velocity), and fixed velocity carbuerators. Dont let these names make you scared. A fixed venturi carbuerator simply uses a variable slide in the middle of the carbuerator that keeps the air moving through it at a constant velocity. This slide is connected directly to engine vaccum, thus as engine vaccum increases the slide opens more. This movement of the slide keeps the air moving through the carbuerator at the same speed at all times. Some variable venturi carbuerators also have that same slide not connected to engine vaccum but the throttle drive cable, thus acting as both a variable venturi and a throttle plate. These are very common on dirtbikes. Fixed Venturi carbuerators have no slides and the venturi is simply controlled by the casting of the carbuerator body, these are common on cars and we won't really be covering them here. Other important aspects of the carb are the bowl, which is on the bottom of the carbuerator and essentialy acts as a small fuel tank, this is where the jets draw from. Inside the carb bowl, also lives the float and float needle. The float, as the name implies floats on top of the gasoline and once it hits a certain point pushes the float needle closed to keep fuel from entering the carbuerator. The float and float needle act as a metering source for the flow of fuel. Its also importnant to note that float height is very important as it has a lot to do with overall air fuel ratio. The higher the fuel level in the carb bowl the more fuel that is going to be drawn and the richer the bike will run, its the opposite for lowering the float height which lesseens the fuel level in the carb bowl. The idle speed screw is also important as it allows the user to raise or lower the idle speed but manually opening the throttle plate in small increments. Other circuits in the carbuerator include a air cut off circuit, and an intermediate circuit. The air cut off circuit essential serves to prevent a lean backfire (which is caused when you engine break) by enrichening the mixture when your exhaust breaking. This works because the most amount of engine vaccum will be produced when you are exhaust breaking, this vaccum force can then open a small spring opperated orfice that allows more fuel into the combustion chamber. You wont see these alot on road bikes, but usually will see them on four wheelers and larger dirtbikes. Another important circuit to known is the midrange circuit. Most carbuerators you will only have that velocity needle that mostly impacts your midrange, but on some carbuerators, like 4 wheeler carbs you will see a thrid jet in the bowl. This jet serves as a jet used for quick transitions bewteen throttle input such as a rev. Carbuerators for most road bikes include an injection pump that squirts a shot of fuel into the intake manifold when the throttle is quickly opened. Carbuerators without this will sometimes include that third jet to give you quick, no load, throttle response. A lot of carbuerators don't include any of these measures and when under no load, or light load conditions when tasked with quickly transiition bewteen no throttle and wide open throttle may stumble, forcing the user to decrease the speed in which they open the throttle. Most Harley Davidson carbuerators found on evo and twin cam motor platforms will be using a constant velocity carbuerator that is very similar to what I described above. The final thing I wish to discuss about carbuerators before I get into specific trouble shooting is the air bleed. On the air side of the carb (what is connected to the air filter) you will normall see two little holes near the bottom lip. These holes serve as air passages to the jets, which allows for atomization of the fuel before it gets to the intake manifold. This is important because it provides the engine with a much better charge, these are just important to clean and rarley have any issues associtated with them.

Now I wish to go into common carbuerator errors.

First consider the sceneriao that the veichle operates perfectly fine in a certain rpm range, but doesn't operate well in any other. This issue is 99% of the time caused by a clogged jet relating to that rpm range. If the veichle idles fine but wont go into fuel throttle this is could be your main jet. Its best practice to clean all your jets though and make sure you can see the light through them. 

Next consider the sceneriao that everytime you rev the motorcycle the idles stays high, and gradually comes back down. This is almost certainly caused by a air fuel idle screw that is turned in too much, causing a lean situation. This could also be caused by two lean of a pilot jet. 

It is best to check your spark plugs, if your using them to determine your air fuel ratio in stages. If you wish to check your idle AFR, then let your veichle idle for 5-10 minuets without any throttle input and check the plugs. Alteritavly if you wish to check its midrange AFR, preform some midrange speeds, shut off the bike, and pop it in nuetral coming to a complete spot. Hopefull you get the idea that you will have to shut the bike off before it goes into any other circuit if you want to be able to test indivduial cirucits!

Another common issue is when you go to give the bike full throttle, moderatly fast, and it either pops or bogs down. This is usually caused do to a lean condition on the midrange circuit, pilot circuit, or idle fuel screw. Most commonly due to a comboniation bewteen a lean pilot and lean idle fuel. 

A great way to rule out these overlaping circuits is to preform your diagonsitic in a range where the smallest amount of influence is seen from any other circuit 
